# 3.5 Security

3.5.1 Asymmetric keys and encryption methods
----------
> - show understanding of the terms: public key, private key, plain text, cipher text, encryption and asymmetric key cryptography
> - show understanding of how the keys can be used to send a private message from the public to an individual/organisation
> - show understanding of how the keys can be used to send a verified message to the public

### What is meant by `encryption`
> s15 32 \[1\]

- Process of turning plain text into cipher text

### What is meant by `public key`
> s15 32 \[1\]

- Key widely available that can be used to encrypt a message that only owner of private key can decrypt
- Can be used to decrypt a message thereby confirming the originator of message.

### Similarities and differences between a **`public key`** and a **`private key`**
> w20 33 Q6 \[2\] + \[2\]

**Similarities**

- Both used in **asymmetric**
- ... encryption
- ... as a pair of keys in required.
- Both hashing algorithms


**Differences**

- Private key only known to owner of the key pair.
- Public key can be distributed to anyone.
- When messages are sent to the owner of the key pair, they are encrypted with the **owner's public key**
- ... so they can only be decrypted by the **owner's private key**.
- Message digests are encrypted with the **private key of the sender** to form a digital signature.

3.5.2 Digital signatures and digital certificates
-------------------------------------------------
> - show understanding of how a digital certificate is acquired
> - show understanding of how a digital certificate is used to produce digital signatures

### Similarities and differences between a **`digital signature`** and a **`digital certificate`**
> w20 33 Q6 \[2\] + \[2\]

**Similarities**

- Both used for authentication
- Both are unique to the owner
- Both use owner's public key
- Both use a hashing algorithm


**Differences**

- Certificate obtained from issuing authority.
- Signature created from a message.
- Certificate provides authentication of owner.
- Certificate remains unchanged whilst it is valid.
- New signatures created for every message.

### Explain how asymmetric encryption uses `digital certificate` to ensure that the message has not been altered during transmission
... when Martha and Joshua had already exchanged certificates

> s20 33 Q8 \[6\]

- Martha's message is encrypted using Joshua's public key.
- Martha's hashing algorithm is used on the message to produce the message digest.
- The message digest is then encrypted with Martha's private key to provide digital signature.
- Both the encrypted message and signature are sent.
- The message is decrypted with Joshua's private key.
- Martha's digital signature is decrypted with Martha's public key to obtain the digest.
- Martha's hashing algorithm recreates the message digest from the decrypted message.
- The two messages digests are compared, if they are the same then the message should be authentic.

#### Asymmetric keys ensure the safety of the data
> *This is a sub-question of the 6-mark one.*
> s16 31 Q6.ii \[4\]

> In case Bob sends email to Alice  
> **Note**: This process can't assure it is Bob who is sending the data. Such identification is performed by 'Digital Certificate'.

- Asymmetric keys means public key used to encrypt is different from the private key used to encrypt
- Bob *encrypts* email **using Alice's public key**
- Bob sends encrypted email to Alice
- Alice decrypts email **using her private key**

#### Digital certificates ensure the identity of tha author of the data
> *This is a sub-question of the 6-mark one.*

> s17 31 Q5 \[2\]  
> In case Bob sends email to Alice, Alice wants to check it is Bob who sent the email. However, the Digital Certificates can't keep the data intact (For this we need asymmetric keys).

- Bob sends his digital certificate
- Digital certificate contains Bob's public key
- Successive decryption using CA's public key provides legitimacy

### How organisation obtain a digital certificate
> w20 32 Q7 \[3\]
>
> This means the organisation wants to apply for a new certificate (from an authority).

- Applied to an issuing CA
- ... with some proof of identity
- ... e.g. name of organisation
- ... so their identity can be checked by an ORA *(organisational registration authority)*
- ... so that a digital certificate will only be issued to a trusted organisation.

### Two items included in digital certificate that will be used when sending message
> w20 32 Q7 \[4\]

| name              | description           |
|:------------------|:----------------------|
| public key        | to encrypt data       |
| hashing algorithm | to produce hash total |

### Three data items present in a digital certificate
> s20 33 Q8 \[3\]  
> w20 32 Q7 \[2\]

> MS varies! Write them all

- **Serial number**
- **'Subject'** Public key
- Dates valid
- **The identity of the owner**
- CA digital signature
- A hashing algorithm
- Purpose of the public key

### Two items contained in an email
> w16 31 Q3.a \[2\]

- Sender's IP address
- Receiver's IP address
- Packet sequence number
- Checksum

### Process of ensuring that the software is authentic (hashing, checksum)
> s18 31 Q6.b \[4\]  
> s18 32 Q5.a \[4\]

> Note: 'Software' can be replaced to other words like 'Alice's message'.  
> Note: This process cannot ensure the identity of the author.

- Software is put through hashing algorithm
- Hash total is encrypted with private key
- Software are sent with hash
- Receiver is in possession of sender's public key
- Received hash total is decrypted with public key (SH)
- The receiver hashes the received software (RH)
- If SH matches RH, the software is authentic.

3.5.3 Encryption protocols
--------------------------
> - show awareness of the purpose of Secure Socket Layer (SSL)/Transport Layer Security (TLS)
> - show awareness of the use of SSL/TLS in client-server communication
> - show awareness of situations where the use of SSL/TLS would be appropriate

### How SSL or TLS helps to keep secure
> s18 32 Q5.b \[4\]  
> s19 31 Q5.b \[6\]  
> s19 33 Q5   \[6\]

*Write as much as possible! The marking schemes varies.*

- Julio's computer **checks the digital certificate** sent **from the server** against **the certificate authority** \[3\]
- **If valid** a **session** is created \[2\]
- The *symmetric* session key is generated
- Session key sent to the server encrypted by the server's public key
- The session key is used to encrypt all further data

3.5.4 Malware
-------------

### Vulnerabilities that a malware can exploit.
> s18 32 Q5.c \[3\]

- Attaching a portable storage device
- Opening an email attachment // clicking links on an email attachment
- Accessing a suspicious website
- Downloading a file from the Internet
- Buffer overflow
- Software not up to date // Software poorly written
- No up-to-date anti-virus/anti-malware software installed
- Regular virus/malware scans not completed
- A firewall that is not set up correctly
- Weak/easily cracked passwords
- Lack of user/staff training

### Spam \[1\]
- User's inbox is filled by a large amount of unwanted email

Solution: setup filters to delete spam email

### Spyware \[1\]
> s18 33 Q6 \[1\]

- A piece of software that records user's actions **without user's knowledge** and sends them to a third party for analysis.

### Worm
> s17 31 Q2.a.i \[1\]

- A standalone piece of malicious software that can replicate itself using a network.
- Could corrupt user's computer / delete data

Solution: run anti-virus software in the background

### Virus \[2\]
> s17 31 Q2.a.iii

- Malicious software that replicates by inserting a copy of itself \[1\] **into a file of data** \[1\]

### Pharming \[1\]
> w20 33 Q6 \[2\]

- Redirect website to fake website
- Domain name server compromised
- Proxy server compromised

### Phishing \[1\]
> w20 33 Q6 \[2\]

- Attempt to obtain somebody’s confidential data / install malware, **through email**